# blog 8/11

Ask Scott who the Jazz musician is that he was reading about yesterday that spent the last 15 years of his life with the Piano

I couldn't come even close to solving the excercise 3 of ch-12, so decided to re-read the chapter

## my uncle's story

3 groups of violinists (story the the book *The Outliers*)

- practiced all the time
- practiced a medium amount
- barely practiced

in all cases, there wasn't a single violinist in 1 group that surpassed the other group, regardless of raw talent, IQ, etc...

the lesson is that it's practice and spending time doing something that makes you good at it

## my uncle's story #2

There was a Jazz Pianist that spent the last 15 years of his life mostly with his piano

Just spending time, mastering the piano, enjoying time with the piana

## circle back to me and coding

I have recently started reading an Erlang book. I'm on page 200 of 500.

My initial goal was to learn the syntax and primitives, and then I could code in Erlang I though. This is true, but something was missing. It is spending time with the language, and learning how to do things outside of syntax and primitives that makes the difference.

Like my uncle's story. Spending time with something makes you better at it.

Learning Erlang has made me feel new again. Like when I was first starting out coding. Not knowing anything and light bulbs going off every coding session like, "wow, okay, I get it."

I have been introduced to a whole community Erlang / Elixir developers. I recently went to Code Elixir LDN. I met some of the most genuine and intelligent people there. It was a true pleasure to be part of that conference. Only 150 people. 

It has also triggered new thinking in Python, my main programming language. Erlang and functional programming has the notion of higher order functions. The idea to me is similar to an abstraction or an interface. 

The notion of opaque types in Erlang is similar. Programming to an interface, not an implementation. One of the major points in the Gang of Four Design Patterns book. There are a lot of connections.

## so if you don't understand something

I'm going to relate this to coding, but you can relate this to anything. If you don't understand something, look at the parts, steps, etc... involved and trie to understand each part. If you don't understand this thing, it is worth the time to learn each part. It's ever more valuable to understand the primitives, and then these can be reused over and over and built upon.

And have fun doing it. Spend time with the thing that you enjoy, and don't worry about being productive. Learn it, become good at, and you will become ever more productive then you think.

## quote one

> First learn how to do it right, then learn how to do it fast

- my dad

## quote two

> Keep growing 10x

- Toran Billups

## Conclusion

Thanks for reading. It was enjoyable for me to share this with you. I hope that you enjoyed it to.

Thank you,

-Aaron

# today

paint 2nd coat:

- blue

remove tape

touch up:

- purple
- blue
- 